feat: editorial review: Add documentation for display-mode: picture-in-picture (#32471)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/@media/display-mode/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`display-mode`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [media feature](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media#media_features) can be used to test the mode in which an application is being displayed within a device's operating system. You can use it to provide a consistent user experience when an application is opened in a display context that appears more integrated with the operating system than regular browser tab contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`display-mode`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [media feature](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media#media_features) can be used to test whether a web app is being displayed in a normal browser tab or in some alternative way, such as a standalone app or fullscreen mode.
```

I thought this opening paragraph could do with a more concrete description, and things like "display context" are a bit unclear.

> For example:
> 
> - A [progressive web app](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) will often rely on opening apps [fullscreen](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API) to provide an experience more like a native app. In this case, this `display-mode` media feature corresponds to the Web app manifest's [`display`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest#display) member. Both apply to the top-level browsing context and any child browsing contexts, although we aware that the feature query will apply regardless of whether a web app manifest is present.
> - The [Fullscreen API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API) and other APIs such as the [Document Picture-in-Picture API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Picture-in-Picture_API) can be used to display regular web app content in different contexts.

Reviewer: A few things about this:

>  A [progressive web app](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) will often rely on opening apps [fullscreen](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API) to provide an experience more like a native app. 

I think the link to fullscreen API here is misleading, it implies that PWAs have to use the fullscreen API "to provide an experience more like a native app", but they don't of course. AIUI the fullscreen API has nothing in particular to do with PWAs.
 
> this `display-mode` media feature corresponds to the Web app manifest's [`display`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest#display) member

I think this isn't quite right: _some_ of these values correspond to `display`, but not all. 

> Both apply to the top-level browsing context and any child browsing contexts

I assume it's also true that `display-mode` also applies to child browsing contexts outside PWAs, so this doesn't feel like it belongs under this bullet.

> we aware that the feature query will apply regardless of whether a web app manifest is present.

Should be media query not feature query?

> - The [Fullscreen API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API) and other APIs such as the [Document Picture-in-Picture API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Picture-in-Picture_API) can be used to display regular web app content in different contexts.

I think "contexts" here is not the best term, especially as we just talked about "browsing contexts".

```suggestion
For example:

- A [progressive web app](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) [can set its display mode](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/How_to/Create_a_standalone_app) by setting the [`display`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest#display) member in its manifest. In this case, the value of `display-mode` identifies the value that was set (but note that this may not the be same as the value requested in the manifest, since a browser may not support the requested mode).

- Any web app can use the [Fullscreen API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API) or the [Document Picture-in-Picture API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Picture-in-Picture_API) to set the display mode, and in this case the value of `display-mode` identifies to the mode that was set.

The `display-mode` value applies to the top-level browsing context and any child browsing contexts.
```

## Syntax

The `display-mode` feature is specified as a keyword value chosen from the list below.

> | Display mode              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Fallback display mode |

Reviewer: What does "Fallback display mode" mean for this media query? I understand what it means for the `display` manifest member: if you request, say, `standalone` and the browser doesn't support that, then you get `minimal-ui`, and if the browser doesn't support _that_, then you get `browser`. But what does it mean for the media query?

Author: Good point. I'm pretty sure this is wrongly copied from the manifest info. It doesn't make sense to have a fallback value for the media query, and the sec doesn't mention anything about fallback values for `display-mode`.

So, I've taken the liberty of removing that row, and also replacing the table with a dl - much more maintainable.

Reviewer: Yes, I was going to say, if we can get rid of the fallback column then we can use a dl here. I also couldn't find this in the spec.

| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| `browser`                 | The application opens in a conventional browser tab or new window, depending on the browser and platform.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | None                  |

> | `fullscreen`              | All of the available display area is used and no user agent {{glossary("chrome")}} is shown. This can be used to apply CSS only when the app has been put in fullscreen mode by the [Fullscreen API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API).                                                                                                                                               | `standalone`          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fullscreen`              | All of the available display area is used and no user agent {{glossary("chrome")}} is shown. This can be used to apply CSS only when the app has been put in fullscreen mode by the [Fullscreen API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fullscreen_API) or using the `fullscreen` value of the [`display`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest#display) member of the Wep App Manifest.                                                                                                                                             | `standalone`          |
```

| `minimal-ui`              | The application will look and feel like a standalone application, but will have a minimal set of UI elements for controlling navigation. The elements will vary by browser.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | `browser`             |

> | `picture-in-picture`      | This mode allows users to continue consuming specific content while they interact with other sites or applications on their device. The app is displayed in a floating and always-on-top window. This can be used to apply CSS only when the app has been put in Picture-in-Picture mode by the [Document Picture-in-Picture API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Picture-in-Picture_API). | `none`                |

Reviewer 2: Why is this \`none\` while the others are "(none)"?

Author: Ooops. I've changed them all to "None", as I didn't think the parens were needed.

Reviewer 2: 👍

}
```

### Provide a light and dark color scheme to Picture-in-Picture content

> In this example, we combine the `display-mode: picture-in-picture` value with the {{cssxref("@media/prefers-reduced-motion", "prefers-reduced-motion")}} media feature to create light and dark color schemes that are applied based on the user's color scheme preference, only when the app is being shown in Picture-in-Picture mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we combine the `display-mode: picture-in-picture` value with the {{cssxref("@media/prefers-color-scheme", "prefers-color-scheme")}} media feature to create light and dark color schemes that are applied based on the user's color scheme preference, only when the app is being shown in Picture-in-Picture mode.
```
